## IMPORTANT TODOs
- stateless computing
	- make sure project creation works on GCRun (simlinks, etc). Run should be stateless.
	- Config should be stored on the DB to keep Run stateless?
- should let me know if DB stops becomming available. Don't just hang there.
	- make sure we get feedback if db couldn´t be created.
	- make sure we get feedback on any sql errors.
	- I get "{"error":"Connection failed: SQLSTATE[HY000] [2002] Operation timed out"}" after too much time
- Should the menu really be generated by the backend?
- Any way to preserve db connection on a session?
- I shouldn't have visibility on projects (sidebar and not sidebar) I'm not user of ¿? does that make sense?
- From the sidebar, show:
	- DBs that are not being managed (should be actionable)
		- can't recreate them atm because they "already exist" so they just take up their name
	- project table entries that don't have a DB (need to be recreated)
- document why I'm calling sidebar_projects twice
- find a way to not need the require once to call db_connection. Check if the connection is open and to the desired db

- Export/Import feature
	- Export
		- 1. SQL export
		- 2. Config from the project table in the maker_mike DB (this is JSON)
			- "select" query from php
		- 3. Media report sheet (from all media columns, make a list of all referenced media files)
			- "select" query from php to the maker_mike DB to get the columns
			- "select" to project DB to get the file paths
		- 4. Dump media files from media report sheet. Checking for consistency
			- if I didn't have to check, I could just add the entire "uploads" folder to the zip file and skip 3
			- if I did check, I could just add all file names to the zip command
		- 5. include [project]/admin/ext folder in the zip file
		enable front end to actually download the generated zip file
	- Project deletion should export to a dedicated "trash" folder first
	- Import
		- 1. Create Maker Mike project
		- 2. Dump media files
		- 3. SQL import (DML)
		- Handle extentions and themes
		- Drag and drop imports

## General TODOs
- annimations on both menus should probably match
- May move to GCP?
	- https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-run
	- https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/reference/libraries#client-libraries-install-php
	- https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/uploading-objects#storage-upload-object-php
- theme autodeploy? filesystem watch service? support users to mount volumes?
- extending the projects from within, issuing create table statements?
- should access to reference imply access to referenced column?
- encript passwords in db
- Figure out a way to create content that is not published, sucerely (possibly the where parameter on the read service)
- Revise logging, currently only using error_log
- SYNDICATION ?
- setup ace editor for php if it's not, can I have php autocompletions?
- check if page and theme url availability need adjustments due to case sensitivity
- verify session on pages from page table? would need to be able to mark pages as private as well
- I need a better logo
- use unlimited column types (will affect db creation) for html
- I should allow for back and forward browser button functionality at index.php (you can't currently reach the same tab you were on)
- create copy on edit
- only preview or don't show even don't show html field on datatable.
- should file size limit be a per project setting? (do I need per project settings?) same thing with input height threadholds
- create test suite
- incorporate OAuth 2.0 for Google accounts
- hide project specific disabled sidebar links 
- front end project config builder?
- use websockets?
- time column on projects?
- confirm project deletions
- dont use the light blue color on the plus/times button
- ctrl+s or cmd+s to save on ace editor
- tab to unfocus on ace editor
- CD? https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/continuous-deployment
- get the logs (2 sources)
	- tail -f /var/log/apache2/php_errors.log
	- the normal ./start
- take jQuery out of the web app?
- verify the ace editor resize timeout
- Connect to Cloud SQL over private IP (doesn't look like it's possible yet)
- jQuery extension client library
	- client demonstration tool?
	- migrate the web app to use the JS client library
	- should the client handle authentication (get and set) as well?
- move images and files to gcs to make Run stateless

## Documentation TODOs
- Diagrams
	- YAML to JSON and JSON to YAML conversion on MM project creations (from scratch and copied from the datatable)
	- Import/Export feature
	- DB, MM DB entry and FS on project creation an deletion based on project name 
- Deploying to GCP (explain whole GCP migration). Should be using the "--prod-mode" flag on entry.sh
- document OAuth
- Creating portlets and pages
- Themes
	- can create a theme within another
- YAML config
	- "display: html" columns
	- Specify valid file extensions¿?
	- Permissions
		- defaults
		- dash vs 'dot star'
		- columns and table levels
	- _show fields
	- select: multi
	- select: tables (requires no type attribute)
	- booleans
	- text fields with 260+ length will be displayed as an ace editor on the front end as per web/src/js/script.js 
- show paramter
- where parameter, other params
- Cloud SQL
	- deployment script or steps
	- create Cloud SQL instance
	- authorize your network (if necessary)
	- use DB credentials on the docker run command
	$sudo docker run --rm -p 80:80 IMAGE_HASH /home/entry.sh -h 35.232.214.58 -P DB_PWD

## Maker Mike 1.0.2

### Running maker mike locally
To run on bare metal:
	./start.sh # will start mysql and php dev server.
- You should have mysql installed and available on your PATH ('/usr/local/mysql/bin' is typical on a mac)
- Check ./start.sh usage with "-h"

For docker:
having done a 
```
docker pull mysql/mysql-server:5.7
```
do:
```
	docker run -e "MYSQL_ROOT_HOST=%" -e "MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=admin" --rm -p 3306:3306 mysql/mysql-server:5.7
	docker inspect [CONTAINER HASH] | grep '                    "IPAd'
	cd docker
	docker build .
	sudo docker run -v $PWD/..:/usr/share/nginx/html --rm -p 80:80 IMAGE_HASH /home/entry.sh -h [DB_HOST]
```

### CRUD service extension mechanism
The logic is written on the "src/ext.inc.php" file, which is required by all CRUD services:
- src/crud_create.php
- src/crud_read.php
- src/crud_update.php
- src/crud_delete.php

CRUD extentions are .php files named as either [TABLE_NAME].[POSTFIX].php if located in a specific project or [PROJECT_NAME|-].[POSTFIX].php if located in /src. The POSTFIX can be one of "c", "r, "u" and "d".
"src/ext.inc.php" will search for CRUD service extentions in 3 places in this order:
- project specific: /projects/[PROJECT_NAME]/admin/ext/[TABLE_NAME].[POSTFIX].php
- from "/src" with an unspecified project. Ex: "/src/-.theme.c.php" or "/src/-.page.u.php"
- from "/src" with a specific project. Ex: "/src/maker_mike.project.c.php"

### CRUD services

#### Request origin check
CRUD services check if they have required by the backend itself by checking the $invoked_from_backend variable and then $GET_PARAMS and $POST_PARAMS if needed.
This is usefull so backend services can call each other without the need of new http requests while still being able to share their parameters.

#### File uploads
There are 3 file size limit configurations:
- nginx.conf: defaults to 1 MB, I have it at 10 MB
- php.ini: defaults to 2MB, I have it at 10 MB
- crud_create.php: custom code, I have it at 10 MB

File extentions are limited to 'jpg', 'jpeg', 'gif' and 'png' at the moment by crud_create.php.

### Discovery endpoint
"src/discovery.php" is copied over to each project at creation time by "./build_pre.sh". It returns JSON output with all the configuration data that the front end client needs to build itself. Security checks are made on the backend by "src/discovery.php".

### Transactions
Often times you will need a set of operations run agains the DB to be atomic. The should be run from the backend. This is an example. 
```
<?php 
	$invoked_from_backend = true;
	$GET_PARAMS['project'] = 'miguelp';
    $_GET = $GET_PARAMS;
	require_once $_SERVER["DOCUMENT_ROOT"].'/src/load_config.php';
	require_once $_SERVER["DOCUMENT_ROOT"].'/src/db_connection.inc.php';

    try {
    	$pdo->beginTransaction();

		$GET_PARAMS['table'] = 'award';
		require '../../src/crud_read.php';
		echo '<br>';

		$GET_PARAMS['table'] = 'link';
		require '../../src/crud_read.php';

		$POST_PARAMS['title'] = 'this is a title';
		$POST_PARAMS['description'] = 'this is a description';
		require '../../src/crud_create.php';

	    $POST_PARAMS['id'] = 4;
		$POST_PARAMS['description'] = 'this is the decription num 4';
		require '../../src/crud_update.php';

		require '../../src/crud_delete.php';

        $pdo->commit();
    } catch (PDOException $e) {
        $pdo->rollBack();
        error_log('PDO ERROR: '.$e->getMessage());
        exit();
    }
?>
```
### YAML Configuration
- default tables
	- can be specified as strings just containing their name
	- will contain the following columns:
		- their own "name"
		- "columns" array with:
			- "name: 512"
			- "description: 1024"
		- set of permissions
- default columns
	- can be specified as strings just containing their name
	- will contain the following properties:
		- their own "name"
		- "type: 512"
		- set of permissions

### Recreating the main "maker_mike" project
- you will loose all project table entries on the maker tab, so projects will be in a limbo as the dabases will continue to exist. Should show up on sidebar TODO only if you are an admin.
- run your maker_mike yaml on the maker tab, currently:
```
name: maker_mike
tables:
- name: project
  columns:
  - name
  - name: config 
    type: JSON 
  - description
- settings
```
- for the "maker_mike" projectName, build_pre.sh will add in a soft link to enable the home page
- entry from the project table, project folder on the FS and the DB can't be deleted as per blacklisting on backend extention maker_mike.project.d.php

#### start.sh
- checks if web port is free
- checks if db port is listening and restarts db if not
- creates start_settings.inc.php
- starts the php server and opens the url for you

### When you click 'submit' on the Maker 'projects' tab
- web/src/index.php sends the form data to itself (first transforming the config field data into json), which then:
	- runs ./build_pre.sh projectName db_host db_user db_pass imageTables, which:
		- recreates the project folder
		- creates soft links to index, discovery and login.
		- creates individual upload folders for tables with files, and one for all service extensions
	- writes projectName/projectName.sql
	- runs ./build_post.sh projectName db_host db_user db_pass imageTables, which
		- creates the database

## Front end

### Front end extention mechanisms
- Available hooks (2) on web/src/index.php TODO 
- Displaying HTML on page (display = 'html';) (see page.r.php and theme.r.php) TODO

### JS yaml library used
https://www.npmjs.com/package/yamljs

## Notes
- To change mysql port: sudo vi /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.oracle.oss.mysql.mysqld.plist
- One liner to find a string in all files recursively:
$ grep -rn . -e 'STRING'
- One liner to find a string in all php files:
$ grep --include=\*.php -rn . -e 'STRING'
- Clean docker out with:
docker ps -aq | xargs docker rm -f
docker images -q | xargs docker rmi -f
docker volume list -q | xargs docker volume rm -f
- to get a list of php file dependencies, you can run:
$ find . -type f -name "*.php" | xargs grep -n -e 'require\([[:space:]]\|(\)' | grep -v ./web/projects/ | sed -e 's/:.*require/ ->/' -e 's/;[[:space:]]*\(\?>\)*$//' -e 's/^\.\///'